Spellcasting (All Spellcasters and Half-Casters have this)
The creature’s spellcasting ability is STAT (+4 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:
at will: spells
1/day each: spells
3/day each: spells
5/day each: spells

Keen Sight
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

Keen Smell
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell.

Keen Hearing
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing.

Keen Sight and Smell
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight or smell.

Keen Sight and Hearing
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight or hearing.

Keen Hearing and Smell
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.

Keen Senses
The creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks.

Radiant Eyes
While its eyes are open, the creature projects bright light in a 60-foot cone and dim light for an additional 60 feet. It sets the orientation of this cone at the end of each of its turns. All creatures that can see the creature have disadvantage on attack rolls while in the area of bright light and within 15 feet of the creature. Creatures with the Sunlight Sensitivity trait that can see the creature have disadvantage on attack rolls anywhere in the area of bright light.

Limited Amphibiousness
The creature can breathe air and water, but it needs to be submerged once every 24 hours to avoid suffocating.

Dire Cocophony
Any creature that starts its turn within 60 feet of the creature and can hear it must make a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is unable to use the Dash action, cannot climb, or cast spells other than cantrips until the start of its next turn.

Magic Resistance
The creature has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

Lurker in the Shadow
The creature is invisible to darkvision.

Vermin Friend
The creature can speak to and understand rats and giant rats.

Swarming Rush
The creature adds 1d4 to its weapon damage rolls while within 5 feet of another, conscious ally.

Iron Scent
The creature can scent the location of ferrous metal within 30 feet of it.

Blessing of Bountiful Generosity (1/day)
The creature targets up to eight creatures within 100 feet of it that it can see. The next time a target finishes a long rest, it regains all spent Hit Dice and gains 10 temporary hit points.

Curse of Poor Hospitality (1/day)
The creature targets up to eight creatures within 100 feet of it that it can see. The next time a target completes a long rest, it does not regain spent Hit Dice.

Vexing Presence
While within 30 feet of an ally that can see it, a non-fey creature has disadvantage on Dexterity checks and Dexterity saving throws.

Needle Defense
Each time a creature makes a melee attack against the creature, it takes 2 piercing damage. A creature can choose to make an attack with disadvantage to avoid this damage.

Close Quarters Shooting
The creature does not suffer disadvantage on ranged attacks while within 5 feet of a hostile creature that can see it and isn’t incapacitated, if the target of the attack is also within 5 feet of the creature.

Fight On, You Slugs
The creature picks up to three allied creatures within 60 feet that can see it. The chosen creatures can each use their reactions to make a single melee attack.

Ceaseless Screaming
Any creature other than allies that starts their turn within 30 feet of one or more screaming creatures and can hear it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure the creature is incapacitated until the start of its next turn. On a success, the creature suffers no effect.

Poison Stinger
The creature injects poison into one creature it hit with an attack this turn. The chosen creature must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, with disadvantage if the creature hit it more than once this turn, taking 11 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. If the poison damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisoned this way.

Entropic Aura
Each creature that is not a construct or undead that ends its turn within 15 feet of the creature takes 5 (2d4) necrotic damage.

Sunlight Sensitivity
While in sunlight, the creature has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

Customizable Storage
The creature can hold up to three types of liquid payload totaling 12 gallons within its body. A full creature can make one liquid attack per gallon before the liquid must be refilled. Refilling takes 2 rounds per gallon. Differing payloads can alter their attacks.

Defensive Advantage
As long as two or more of the creature’s allies are within 5 feet of the creature and are not incapacitated, attack rolls against the creature are made with disadvantage.

Fey Ancestry
The creature has advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened.

Eye Thief
The creature can see through the eyes of all creatures within 30 feet of it. All creatures within the sight of any creature within the 60 ft. count as in line of sight.

Strong Regeneration
The creature regains 8 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes a critical hit, this trait doesn’t function at the start of its next turn. The creature dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.

Regeneration
The creature regains 8 hit points at the start of its turn. If it takes fire damage or a critical hit, this trait doesn’t function at the start of its next turn.

Pack Tactics
The creature has advantage on an attack roll against a target if at least one of the creature's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.

Pounce
If the creature moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a melee attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone.

Better Pounce
If the creature moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a melee attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 11 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target falls or is already prone, the creature can make one natural/unarmed attack against it as a bonus action.

Change Humanoid Appearance
The creature can use its action to polymorph into a Medium humanoid it has seen, or back into its true form. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

Brave
The creature has advantage on saving throws against being frightened.

Sneak Attack (1/Turn)
The creature deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of the creature that isn't incapacitated and the creature doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll.

Evasion
If the creature is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, the creature instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails. It can’t use this trait if it’s incapacitated.

Dual-Consciousness
The creature has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious.

Telepathic Bond
While the creature is on the same plane of existence as its master/servant, it can magically convey what it senses to them, and the two can communicate telepathically.

Aware
The creature can’t be surprised.

Incorporeal Movement
The creature can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object.

Dual Mind
The creature has advantage on Wisdom saving throws.

Ambusher
In the first round of a combat, the creature has advantage on attack rolls against any creature it surprised.

Mimicry
The creature can mimic any sounds it has heard, including voices. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check.

Amorphous
The creature can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.

Aura of False Divinity
An enemy that starts its turn within 30 feet of the creature must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, provided the creature isn’t incapacitated. On a failed save, the enemy is charmed by the creature. An enemy charmed in this way can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once it succeeds on the saving throw, the enemy is immune to this creature’s Aura of False Divinity for 24 hours.

Limited Magic Immunity
The creature can’t be affected or detected by spells of 2nd level or lower unless it wishes to be. The creature has advantage on saving throws against all other spells and magical effects.

Deadly Critical
The creature scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20 and rolls the damage dice three times, instead of twice.

Precision Blows
The creature scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20.

Powerful Critical
On a critical hit the creature rolls the damage dice three times, instead of twice.

Whirlwind of Weapons
A magical aura of weapons surrounds the creature in a 5 foot radius. At the start of each of its turns, any other creature in the aura takes 11 (3d6) force damage.

Master of Magic
The creature has advantage on Constitution saving throws to maintain concentration.

Adamantine Plating
Any critical hit against the creature becomes a normal hit.

Bladed Armor
An enemy that grapples the creature or is grappled by it takes 9 (2d8) slashing damage. An enemy takes 9 (2d8) slashing damage if it starts its turn grappling or being grappled by the creature.

Charge
If the creature moves at least 10 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a melee attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone.

Aura of Radiance
The creature magically sheds bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. The creature can extinguish or restore this light as a bonus action. If the bright light overlaps with an area of darkness created by a spell of 3rd level or lower, the spell that created that darkness is dispelled.

Siege Monster
The creature deals double damage to objects and structures.

Magic Weapons
The creature’s attacks are magical.

Crackling Death
When the creature dies, it explodes. Each creature within 30 feet of it must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 16 (4d8) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Bolstering Presence
The creature magically emanates life-giving energy within 20 feet of itself. Any ally of the creature that starts its turn there regains 4 (1d8) hit points.

Devil's Sight
Magical darkness doesn’t impede the creature’s darkvision.

Last Laugh
When the creature dies, it releases a dying laugh that scars the minds of other nearby creatures. Each creature within 10 feet of the creature must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or take 9 (2d8) psychic damage.

Amphibious
The creature can breathe air and water.

Speak with Beasts and Plants
The creature can communicate with beasts and plants as if they and the creature shared a language.

Empowered Spell (2-3/Day)
When the creature rolls damage for a spell, it can reroll up to two dice of damage. It must use the new dice.

Relentless (Recharge 6)
If the angel takes 16 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hit points, it is reduced to 1 hit point instead.

Assassinate
During its first turn, the creature poisoner has advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn. Any hit the creature scores against a surprised creature is a critical hit.

Poisonous Skin
Any creature that touches the creature or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 3 (1d6) poison damage.

Spider Climb
The creature can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

Inscrutable
The creature is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain its intentions or sincerity have disadvantage.

Elusive
No attack roll has advantage against the creature unless it is incapacitated.

Psychic Defenses
Unless the creature is incapacitated, it is immune to magic that allows other creatures to read its thoughts, determine whether it is lying, know its alignment, or know its creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with the creature only if it allows it.

Aura of Blood Lust
When any other creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the creature, that enemy must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw, or it must immediately take the Attack action, making one melee attack against a random creature within reach. If no creatures are within reach, it makes a ranged attack against a random creature within range, throwing its weapon if necessary.

Feed on the Crowd
Whenever a creature within 60 feet of the creature dies, the creature gains 15 temporary hit points and has advantage on all attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws until the end of its next turn.

Locus of the Firemind
The creature can maintain concentration on two different spells at the same time. In addition, it has advantage on saving throws to maintain concentration on spells.

Focus
As a bonus action, the creature can target an enemy it can see within 30 feet of it and make that enemy its focus. The target remains the creature’s focus for 1 minute, or until either the target or the creature drops to 0 hit points.
When the creature makes an attack roll against its focus, it adds a d4 to its attack roll. If the creature attacks a different target while it has a focus, it subtracts a d4 from its attack roll.

Shadow Stride
As a bonus action, the creature can step into a shadow within 5 feet of it and magically appear in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of a second shadow that is up to 60 feet away. Both shadows must be cast by a Small or larger creature or object.

Formation Tactics
The creature has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, frightened, grappled, or restrained while it is within 5 feet of at least one ally.

Reckless
At the start of its turn, the creature can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls it makes during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn.

One with the Weave
The creature has such a powerful connection to the weave that, if it did not use its action to cast a spell, it can use her bonus action to cast a Cantrip or 1st Level spell.

Sheer Willpower
The first time the creature drops to 0 HP in a combat, it is not downed and instead continues to fight for another turn. Taking a critical hit ends this effect early.

Controlled Rage
When the creature takes 13 damage from a single creature in a turn, they gain 15 ft. of movement speed on their next turn and +6 damage to their next attack.

Group Distraction
If an ally is within range of a target, the creature can Disengage as a Bonus Action.

Blood Frenzy
The creature has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn't have all its hit points.

Master Grappler
The creature has advantage on grapple checks and can move at full speed while dragging a creature. Enemies grappled by the creature are considered restrained.

Lightning Rod
Every successful hit has a 10% chance to cause the target to make a DC 14 Consitution saving throw or be paralyzed.

Projectile Shielding
The creature takes half damage from all projectiles.

Great Constitution
The creature has advantage on checks to be stunned, charmed, restrained, or exhausted.

Icy Slime
The creature’s body is covered in a layer of greasy, ice-cold slime that grants it the benefits of freedom of movement. In addition, an enemy that touches the creature or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 7 (2d6) cold damage from the freezing slime. An enemy grappled by the creature takes this damage at the start of each of its turns.

Strangle
The creature has +2 to grapple checks. The creature strangles one enemy grappled by it. The target must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failure, the target takes 14 (4d8) bludgeoning damage, can’t breathe, speak, or cast spells, and begins suffocating. On a success, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and is no longer grappled. Until this strangling grapple ends (escape DC 14), the target takes 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage at the start of each of its turns. The creature can strangle up to one creature the same size as it or two smaller than it.

Distance Distortion Aura
The presence of the creature distorts the vision of creatures within 60 feet of it. Each creature that starts its turn in that area must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be unable to correctly judge the distance between itself and its surroundings until the start of its next turn. An affected creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight, and it can’t move more than half its speed on its turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the Aura for the next 24 hours. Creatures with blindsight, tremorsense, or truesight are unaffected by this trait.

Mucous Cloud
While underwater, the creature is surrounded by transformative mucus. A creature that touches the creature or that hits it with a melee attack while within 5 ft. of it must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature is diseased for 1d4 hours. The diseased creature can breathe only underwater.

Probing Telepathy (grants 120 ft. telepathy)
If an enemy communicates telepathically with the creature, the creature learns the enemy's greatest desires if the creature can see the creature.

Dual State
A creature exists upon the Material Plane in one of two forms and can switch between them at will. In its material form, it has resistance to damage from nonmagical attacks. In its ethereal form, it is immune to damage from nonmagical attacks. The creature's ethereal form appears as a dark purple outline of its material form, with a blackish-purple haze within. A creature in ethereal form can move through air as though it were water, with a fly speed of 40 feet.

Camouflage
The creature has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide.

Cursed Existence
When it drops to 0 hit points in desert terrain, the creature's body disintegrates into sand and a sudden parched breeze. However, unless it was killed in a hallowed location, with radiant damage, or by a blessed creature, the creature reforms at the next sundown 2d20 miles away in a random direction.

Darkness Aura
The creature can generate an aura of darkness that fills its space and the surrounding 20 feet. This darkness prevents normal vision and darkvision from functioning. Blindsight and truesight function normally. Activating or deactivating the aura is a bonus action.

Earth Glide (grants burrow speed)
The creature glides through stone, dirt, or any sort of earth except metal as easily as a fish glides through water. Its burrowing produces no ripple or other sign of its presence and leaves no tunnel or hole unless the creature chooses to do so; in that case, it creates a passageway SIZE feet wide by SIZE feet high. The spell move earth cast on an area containing an earth-gliding cave creature flings the creature back 30 feet and stuns the creature for one round unless it succeeds on a Constitution saving throw.

Element Incarnate
All non-physical damage dealt by the creature ignores resistance but not immunity.

Ethereal Sight
The creature can see 60 feet into the Ethereal Plane when it is on the Material Plane, and vice versa.

Ice Walk
The creature can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, difficult terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement.

Uncontrollable
The creature's movement is never impeded by difficult terrain, and its speed can't be reduced by spells or magical effects. It can't be restrained (per the condition), and it escapes automatically from any nonmagical restraints (such as chains, entanglement, or grappling) by spending 5 feet of movement. Being underwater imposes no penalty on its movement or attacks.

Unfixed in Time
To those properly fixed in time, the creature flickers in and out of time, its position never fully clear. Attack rolls against the creature have disadvantage. If it is hit by an attack, this trait ceases to function until the start of its next turn.

Absorb Potion
The creature can absorb any potion, oil, tincture, or alchemical draught that touches it, choosing to be affected by the substance or to nullify it.

Elemental Expulsion
Whenever the creature takes acid, cold, fire, or lightning damage, all creatures within 20 feet of the creature must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking damage equal to the damage the creature took on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Hold Breath
The creature can hold its breath for (15 mintues to 4 hours).

Defensive Frenzy
When it has half its hit points or fewer, the creature can make one unarmed attack as a bonus action.

Pack Leader
The creature has advantage on an attack roll against an enemy if at least one of the creature‘s allies is within 5 feet of the enemy and the ally isn’t incapacitated. Likewise, each of the creature‘s allies has advantage on an attack roll against an enemy if the creature is within 5 feet of the enemy and isn’t incapacitated.

Master Manipulator
The creature prefers to control from the shadows and manipulates whomsoever it pleases. It has advantage on any Charisma skill checks or saving throws, even if it would otherwise have disadvantage. It also adds +4 to any Deception or Persuasion rolls.

Born of Darkness
The creature can take the Hide action as a bonus action on each turn while it is in dim light or darkness, even if it is being observed.

Woodfriend
When in a forest, the creature leave no tracks and automatically discerns true north.

Aversion to Water
If the creature takes cold damage or is doused with at least three gallons of water, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the end of its next turn.

Fire Absorption
Whenever the creature is subjected to fire damage, it takes no damage and instead regains a number of hp equal to the fire damage dealt.

Arboreal Movement
The creature can move through trees as if they were difficult terrain. The creature can end its turn inside a tree, but it is expelled into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the tree if the tree is destroyed. Enemies inside of or grappled by the creature are expelled into a spot within 5 ft. of the tree.

Truespeak
The creature can communicate with any living creature as if they shared a language.

Aura of Necromancy's Bane
Necromancy spells can't be cast within 120 feet of the creature. When an undead creature starts its turn within 30 feet of the creature, it must make a DC 22 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Usher of Souls
The creature can transport itself and up to eight creatures in contact with it to another plane of existence. This works like the plane shift spell, except dead or incorporeal creatures can be transported and don't have to be willing. The creature can't use this ability to banish an unwilling creature.

Blood Sense
The creature can pinpoint, by scent, the location of living creatures within 30 feet of it.

Devil’s Sight
Magical darkness doesn’t impede the creature’s darkvision.

Speak with Spiders
The creature can communicate with spiders and other arachnids as if they shared a language.

Capturing Strings
If two attacks hit a Medium or smaller target, the target is restrained in gilded webbing. As an action, the restrained target can make a DC 13 Strength check, bursting the restaint on a success. The restraints can also be attacked and destroyed (AC 12; hp 8; immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage).

Aura of Virulence
Creatures that would normally be resistant or immune to poison damage or the poisoned condition lose their resistance or immunity while within 60 feet of the creature. All other creatures within 60 feet of the creature have disadvantage on saving throws against effects that cause poison damage or the poisoned condition.

Swarm Prince
The creature can communicate with all vermin and insects, including swarms and giant varieties, within 120 feet via pheromone transmission. This is a silent and instantaneous mode of communication that only Arbeyach, spawn of Arbeyach, insects, and vermin can understand. All these creatures follow the creature's orders and will never harm the creature.

Shearing
Whenever the creature suffers 10 or more damage from a single attack, a length of itself breaks free. This animated tendril is under the creature's control, moving and acting as an extension of the creature. Each tendril has AC 14, 10 hp, and a speed of 10 feet.

Advanced (Skill)
The creature has advantage on (Skill) checks.

Shapechanger
The creature can use its action to polymorph into a small object, such as a ring, wand, orb, rod, or scroll. Its statistics are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. While polymorphed and motionless, the creature is indistinguishable from an ordinary object.

Arcane Discharge
When the creature dies, it explodes in a surge of partially-digested magical energy. Each creature within 15 feet must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 3 (1d6) force damage per Feed score on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. For 1 minute afterward, the affected area is awash with volatile magic. A creature that starts its turn in the affected area takes 7 (2d6) force damage.

Ingest Magic
At the start of each of the creature's turns, each enemy within 30 feet of it that is currently maintaining concentration on a spell must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the enemy's spell ends and the creature feeds on the magic, regaining hit points equal to twice the level of the spell.

Slaver Strikes
The creature can add a magical effect in addition to the normal damage done by its attacks. If so, the creature chooses from the following effects:
Confusion. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become confused (as the spell) for 2d4 - 1 rounds.
Fear. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 2d4 rounds.
Hideous Laughter. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become incapacitated for 2d4 rounds. While incapacitated, the target is prone and laughing uncontrollably.
Sleep. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or fall asleep for 2d4 minutes. The creature wakes up if it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it awake.

Healing Presence
When a friendly ally within 10 feet of the creature regains hp, they regain an extra 1d6 hp.

Assassinate
During its first turn, the creature has advantage on attack rolls against any enemy that hasn't taken a turn. Any hit the creature scores against a surprised enemy is a critical hit.

Swarm
The creature can occupy another creature’s space and vice versa, and the creature can move through any opening as small as an inch wide.

Helping Hand
The creature can take the Help action as a bonus action on each of its turns.

Water Invisibility
While fully immersed in water, the creature is invisible. If it attacks, it becomes visible until the start of its next turn. The creature can suppress this invisibility until the start of its next turn as a bonus action.

Chilling Presence
The creature freezes everything within 150 feet of it. After 5 rounds, nonmagical fires up to the size of a campfire are quenched. Water freezes within 1 minute. Spells that protect against cold are subjected to an immediate dispel magic (at +10 spellcasting ability) when within 150 feet of Boreas.

Absorbent
When the creature damages an enemy, it absorbs a portion of that enemy's knowledge and power. As a bonus action, it can recreate any action available to an enemy it damaged within the last minute. This includes spells and actions with limited uses or with a recharge. This recreated action is resolved using the creature's statistics where applicable.

Soothing Aura
Any enemy hostile to the creature that starts its turn within 30 feet of the creature must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or have disadvantage on all attack rolls until the end of its next turn. Creatures with Intelligence 3 or lower automatically fail the saving throw.

Legendary Merge
A creature with less than half its maximum hp can merge with any other of the same creature within 10 feet, adding its remaining hp to that creature's. The hp gained this way can exceed the normal maximum of that creature. The creature can accept any number of such mergers.

Multiple Heads
The creature's two heads grant it advantage on Perception Checks and saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious.

Reactive Heads
The creature gets two extra reactions that can be used only for opportunity attacks.

Fire Aura
At the start of each of the creature's turns, each enemy within 5 feet of it takes 10 (3d6) fire damage, and flammable objects in the aura that aren't being worn or carried ignite. An enemy that touches the creature or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 10 (3d6) fire damage.

Running Leap
The creature's long jump is up to 40 feet and its high jump is up to 20 feet when it has a running start. (Adjusted for larger creatures)

Petrifying Gaze
If an enemy starts its turn within 30 ft. of the creature and the two of them can see each other, the creature can force the enemy to make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw if the creature isn't incapacitated. On a failed save, the enemy magically begins to turn to stone and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the enemy is petrified until freed by the greater restoration spell or other magic.
An enemy that isn't surprised can avert its eyes to avoid the saving throw at the start of its turn. If it does so, it can't see the creature until the start of its next turn, when it can avert its eyes again. If it looks at the creature in the meantime, it must immediately make the save.

Steadfast
The creature can't be frightened while it can see an allied creature within 30 feet of it.

Frenzy (1/rest)
As a bonus action, the creature can trigger a berserk frenzy that lasts 1 minute. While in frenzy, it gains resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage and has advantage on attack rolls. Attack rolls made against a frenzied creature have advantage.

Antimagic Cone
The creature's creates an area of antimagic, as in the antimagic field spell, in a 60-foot cone. At the start of each of its turns, the creature decides which way the cone faces and whether the cone is active. The area works against the creature's own magics.

Treasure Sense
The creature can pinpoint, by scent, the location of precious metals and stones, such as coins and gems, within 60 ft. of it.

Hateful Aura
The creature and allies within 10 feet of the creature add their Charisma modifier to weapon damage rolls (unless it is negative).

Carnivorous Compulsion
If the creature can see an incapacitated creature, it must succeed on a DC 11 Wisdom save or be compelled to move toward that creature and attack it.

Unholy Stench
When the creature takes piercing or slashing damage, noxious vapors burst from its wounds. Each enemy within 10 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 7 (2d6) poison damage and be poisoned until the end of its next turn.

Blood Sense
The creature can pinpoint the location of living creatures within 60 feet of it and can sense the general direction of living creatures within 1 mile of it.

Blood Scent
A creature can smell blood within 240 feet of it. It can determine whether the blood is fresh or old and what type of creature shed the blood. In addition, the creature has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Survival) checks to find or track a creature that doesn’t have all its hp.

Necrotic Absorption
Whenever the creature is subjected to necrotic damage, it takes no damage and instead regains a number of hp equal to the necrotic damage dealt.

Cackle
The creature emits a constant, demoralizing cackle. When an enemy that isn’t an undead or a construct starts its turn within 30 feet of the creature and can hear it, it must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or feel demoralized by the creature’s cackling. A demoralized enemy has disadvantage on attack rolls until the start of its next turn.

Fiendish Blessing
The AC of the creature includes its Charisma bonus.

Detect Elixir
The creature can pinpoint the location of potions and magic items within 60 feet of it. Outside of 60 feet, it can sense the general direction of potions within 1 mile of it.

