Ethereal Jaunt
As a bonus action, the creature can magically shift from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa.

Teleport
As a bonus action, the creature can teleport up to 15 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

Change Shape
The creature magically polymorphs into a humanoid, beast, or giant that has a challenge rating no higher than its own, or back into its true form. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (its choice).
In a new form, the creature retains his alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this bonus action. Its statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of the new form, except any class features or legendary actions of that form.

Healing Touch (2-3/Day)
The creature touches another creature. The target magically regains 10 (2d6 + 3) hit points and is freed from one curse afflicting it (creature’s choice).

Aggressive
As a bonus action, the creature can move up to its speed toward a hostile creature it can see.

Shadow Stealth
While in dim light or darkness, the creature can take the Hide action as a bonus action.

Nimble Escape
The creature can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of his turns.

Commander of Bones
As a bonus action, the creature can target one skeleton or zombie it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target must obey the creature’s commands until the creature dies or until the creature releases it as a bonus action. The creature can command up to twelve undead at a time this way.
While within 60 feet of the creature, any undead ally of the creature has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead.

Cunning Action
On each of its turns, the creature can use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.

Leadership
The creature utters a few inspiring words to one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the creature can hear it, they can add a d6 to one attack roll or saving throw it makes before the start of the creature’s next turn.

Blood Witch Dance
The creature can cast hex as a bonus action.
The creature can use a bonus action to control the movement of one creature cursed by its hex spell that it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or use its reaction to move up to 30 feet in a direction of the creature’s choice.

Summon Mount (1/Day)
The creature magically summons a mount, which appears in an unoccupied space within 60 feet of the creature. The mount remains for 8 hours, until it or the creature dies, or until the creature dismisses it as an action. The mount uses the stat block of an elk (see the Monster Manual) with these changes: it has an Intelligence of 6, and it understands the creature's languages but can’t speak. While within 1 mile of the mount, the creature can communicate with it telepathically.

Exploitation of the Peasants (Recharge 5-6)
As a bonus action, the creature targets a creature that it can see within 30 feet of it. The creature deals 11 (2d10) necrotic damage to the target, and the creature gains temporary hit points equal to the damage dealt.

Gust-Propelled Leap
The creature can use a bonus action to fly up to 10 feet without provoking opportunity attacks.

Tree Stride
Once on its turn, the creature can use 10 feet of its movement to step magically into one living tree within its reach and emerge from a second living tree within 60 feet of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the second tree. Both trees must be Large or bigger.

Radiant Defense (Recharge 5-6)
The creature chooses an ally it can see within 30 feet of it. The first time that creature is hit by an attack in the next minute, the attacker takes 14 (3d8) radiant damage.

Rift Beam (Recharge 5-6)
The creature can use an action to expend a charge to perform a Rift Beam attack. Each creature in a 5-foot wide 30-foot line must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 14 (4d6) and is pushed 5 feet away perpendicular from the line (the creature's choice of direction) and cannot take reactions until the start of their next turn. The Rift Beam also creates temporary tunnels in nonmagical walls. The tunnels last for 1 minute before closing and extend for up to 30 feet from where the rift beam originated. The tunnels are a distortion of space and do not cause structural damage.

Sonic Scream
The creature takes a deep breath and screams. Any creature within 15 ft. roll a DC 15 Consitution saving throw. On a fail, they take 40 (3d20 + 10) force damage and half as much on a success.
Creatures that fail their saving throw are deafened for 1 minute. Any creature within 5 ft. is defeaned and, if they failed their saving throw, they are stunned until the end of their next turn.

Piercing Spines (Recharge 6)
Two spines target the highest health creatures within 30 ft. and attempt to pin them to a surface. Targeted creatures must make a DC 14 Dex Save or take 18 (4d8) piercing damage and become restrained (escape DC 15 Athletics). Creatures that pass the saving throw take half damage and are not restrained.

Bell of Dissonance (Recharge 5-6)
A bell tolls. All creatures within 40 ft. of the creature must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a fail, they are deafened and cannot take bonus actions until the end of their next turn. If they fail the saving throw by more than 5, they are stunned for 1 round and cannot use bonus actions for 1 minute.

Pull
A target within 30 ft. of creature and not in melee range must make a DC 14 Dexterity Saving Throw or be pulled 15 feet closer to the creature.

Churning Advance (Recharge 6)
As a bonus action, the alabaster tree moves up to two times its speed, leaving a trail of difficult terrain behind it.

Musk Spray (Recharge 5-6)
The weasel unleashes a spray of foul musk in a 20-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

