NOTE TO SELF: ADD BONUS ACTION/REACTION RECHARGES TO THIS LIST

Petty Tyrant (Recharge 5-6)
The creature shouts bloodcurdling threats at the creatures that serve it. Each medium or smaller ally of the creature within 120 feet of it that can see or hear it can use its reaction to make a melee attack.

Blood Boiling Hex (Recharge 6)
The creature places a hex on a target it can see within 60 feet of it for 1 minute. If the creature is hidden, using this ability does not reveal its location. While the target is affected by this hex, whenever it makes an attack roll, an ability check, or a saving throw, it must roll a d6 and subtract the number rolled from the d20 roll. On any turn in which it suffers the effect of the hex, the target can attack an ally as a reaction, ignoring the effect of the hex when it does so. It can then ignore the effect of the hex until the end of its turn.

Chaos Cloud (Recharge 6)
The creature shoots forth a knot of roiling ethereal light that explodes at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn.

Hot Oil Spray (Recharge 5-6)
The creature sprays hot oil in a 15-foot cone or in a 30-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature in the area must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 7 (1d8 + 3) fire damage and falls prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and doesn’t fall prone. Any creature affected by the hot oil spray that takes fire damage before the oil dries (after 1 minute) takes an additional 3 (1d6) fire damage, and the oil burns away. If the oil that remains in the area of the spray is lit, it burns for 1d4 rounds and deals 3 (1d6) fire damage to any creature that enters the area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.

Word from Beyond (Recharge 6)
The creature remembers and repeats aloud a few words from a place he entered while walking back from the next world to this one. Each creature of his choice within 30 feet of him that can hear him must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn.

Unsettling Visage (Recharge 5-6)
Each creature within 30 feet of the changeling must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Corruption (Recharge 5-6)
The creature targets one creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or take 11 (2d6 + 4) necrotic damage and become corrupted for 1 minute. A corrupted creature’s flesh twists in alien ways. The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls, its speed is reduced by half, and if it tries to cast a spell, it must first succeed on a DC 12 Intelligence check or the spell fails and is wasted. The corrupted creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Mind Blast (Recharge 5-6)
The creature magically emits psychic energy in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw or take 13 (2d8 + 4) psychic damage and be stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Possession (Recharge 6)
One humanoid that the creature can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the creature; the creature then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The creature now controls the body but doesn’t deprive the target of awareness. The creature can’t be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target’s statistics, but doesn’t gain access to the target’s knowledge, class features, or proficiencies. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the creature ends it as a bonus action, or the creature is forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the creature reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this creature’s Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends.

Great Pierce (Recharge 4-6)
Thrust forward with a powerful blow. Each creature in a 15 ft. line much make a DC 14 Dexterity Saving Throw or take 13 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage.

Whirlwind Slash (Recharge 5-6)
The creature spins, rolling a separate attack roll on each creature within melee range. On a hit, they take damage equal to a normal melee attack + 2.

Bladestorm (Recharge 5-6)
The creature sprays a fan of sharp objects, rolling a separate attack roll on each creature in a 180 degree cone within 25 ft. of the creature. On a hit, they take 11 (3d4 + 3) piercing damage.

Tactician's Eye (Recharge 5-6)
The creature shouts an order, granting all allies within 30 ft. advantage on their next attack.

Gravity Bomb (Recharge 5-6)
The creature causes an intense gravitational pressure to cascade out in a wave. All creatures within 40 ft. must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw or else be pulled 20 ft. towards the creature. A creature that impacts an object or another creature takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and are knocked prone if they failed the saving throw by 5 or more.

Deep Impact (Recharge 6)
The creature rears back and slams the ground, creating a crater 5 ft. around it, making it difficult terrain. All creatures within 10 ft. of the creature must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. Creatures within 5 ft. also take 11 (3d6) bludgeoning damage on a failed save.

Static Shock (Recharge 5-6)
Electricity channels through the creature and every creature touching water or metal that is connected to the creature within 15 ft. or touching the creature must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a fail, they take 11 (2d10) lightning damage and are paralyzed for one turn. On a successful save, they take half damage and are not paralyzed.

Heavy Shout (Recharge 5-6)
The creature lets out a powerful bellow in a 30 ft. cone in front of it, granting itself 10 Temporary Hit Points and advantage on its next attack. Creatures within the area must make a DC 11 Strength saving throw or be knocked back 10 ft.

Summoning Call (Recharge 6)
The creature sends out a telepathic command, summoning 1d4 (min 2) creatures that are CR (1/4 of the creature) or lower..

Teleport (Recharge 5-6)
The creature teleports itself and one willing creature up to 60 ft. to a place it can see.

Blazing Warp (Recharge 5-6)
The creature teleports itself in a blaze of fire to a location up to 30 ft. away. Creatures within 5 ft. of the departure and arrival points must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or take 11 (3d6) fire damage.

Fire Flower (Recharge 5-6)
The creature expels two 10 ft. wide lines out 20 ft. on opposite sides of itself or four 5 ft. wide lines out 20 ft. in a cross shape from itself. The fire remains until the creature's second turn after using it. Creatures that the fire would hit initially must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or take 9 (2d8) fire damage. Creatures that start their turn in the fire or enter it for the first time on their turn take 7 (2d6) fire damage.

Winter Wind (Recharge 5-6)
A freezing wind whirls around the creature, affecting all creatures within 10 ft. Affected creatures must make a DC 13 Consitution saving throw or take 9 (2d8) cold damage and are frozen in place. On a successful save, creatures take half damage and are not frozen. Frozen creatures are considered restrained until they or another creature spend an action to break away the ice.

Mind Seed (1/Day)
The creature touches one humanoid, which must succeed on a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw or be cursed. The curse lasts until it’s removed by a remove curse or greater restoration spell. The cursed target suffers 1 level of exhaustion every 24 hours, and finishing a long rest doesn’t reduce its exhaustion. If the cursed target reaches exhaustion level 6, it doesn’t die; it instead becomes a thrall under the creature’s control, and all its exhaustion is removed. Only the wish spell or the creature's death can free the thrall from this control.

Swarm of Eyes (Recharge 5-6)
The creature creates a swarm of spectral eyes that fills a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 14 (3d8) psychic damage, and it is blinded for 1 minute. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t blinded. A blinded creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Radiant Strike (Recharge 5-6)
The creature chooses a point on the ground it can see within 60 feet of it. A 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder of bright light appears there until the start of the creature’s next turn. Each creature in the cylinder when it appears or that ends its turn there must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (3d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Arcane Cataclysm (Recharge 6)
The creature conjures orbs of magical energy that plummet to the ground at three different points its can see within 60 ft. of it. Each creature in a 5-foot-radius sphere centered on each point must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature in the area of more than one arcane burst is affected only once. The area of each arcane burst then acts as an antimagic field for 2 rounds. The creature and spells it casts are unaffected by these fields.

Flame Strike (Recharge 5-6)
The creature chooses a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 10 (3d6) fire damage and 10 (3d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Incinerating Beam (Recharge 5–6)
The creature fires a beam of light in a 100-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in the line must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by this beam is disintegrated, leaving behind anything it was wearing or carrying.

Martial Prowess (Recharge 5-6)
Immediately make a melee attack. Until the start of its second turn after using this, when the creature hits a target with a melee weapon attack, the attack deals an extra 9 (2d8) damage of the weapon’s type, and the target must make a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failure, the creature can push the target up to 10 feet away from it, knock the target prone, or make the target drop one item it is holding of the creature’s choice.

Pacifying Presence (Recharge 6)
Each target of the creature’s choice that the creature can see within 60 feet of it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, or else the target drops any weapons it is holding, ends its concentration on any spells or other effects, and becomes charmed by the creature for 1 minute. The charmed target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the creature’s Pacifying Presence for the next 24 hours.

Detention (Recharge 5-6)
The creature targets a creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be magically teleported to a harmless demiplane until the end of the creature’s next turn, whereupon the target reappears in the space it left or the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.

Warleader's Helix (Recharge 5-6)
Ranged Spell Attack: +17 to hit, range 60 ft., one creature. Hit: 14 (4d6) radiant damage, and the creature can choose another creature it can see within 10 feet of the target. The second creature regains 11 (3d6) hit points.

Suppress Magic (Recharge 5-6)
The creature targets one magic item it can see within 120 feet of it. If the magic item isn’t an artifact, its magical properties are suppressed for 10 minutes, until the creature is incapacitated or dies, or until the creature uses a bonus action to end the effect.

Supreme Legal Authority (Recharge 5-6)
The creature chooses up to three creatures it can see within 90 feet of it. Each target must succeed on a DC 14 Intelligence saving throw or the creature chooses an action for that target: Attack, Cast a Spell, Dash, Disengage, Dodge, Help, Hide, Ready, Search, or Use an Object. The affected target can’t take that action for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target’s turns, it can end the effect on itself with a successful DC 14 Intelligence saving throw. A target that succeeds on the saving throw becomes immune to the creature’s Supreme Legal Authority for 24 hours.

Captivating Presence (Recharge 6)
Each creature within 120 feet of the creature must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the master for 1 hour. While charmed in this way, a creature’s speed is 0. If the charmed creature takes damage, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. A target that succeeds on the saving throw is immune to the Captivating Presence of all creature for the next 24 hours.

Mind Siphon (Recharge 5-6)
The creature targets an enemy it can see within 30 feet of it. The target must make a DC 14 Intelligence saving throw, with disadvantage if the creature has previously consumed the target’s blood. On a failed save, the target takes 17 (5d6) psychic damage, and the creature discerns the target’s surface emotions and thoughts. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage, and the creature discerns the target’s general emotional state but not its thoughts.

Lashing Shadows (Recharge 5-6)
Each creature within 60 feet of the creature, must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 14 (4d6) necrotic damage.

Wrath of Nature's Lord (Recharge 5-6)
The creature conjures a momentary whirl of branches and vines at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature in a 30-foot cube on that point must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 11 (3d6) bludgeoning damage and 9 (2d8) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Deluge (Recharge 4-6)
The creature conjures a wave of water that crashes down on an area within 120 feet of it. The area can be up to 30 feet long, up to 10 feet wide, and up to 10 feet tall. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 15 (4d6) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone. The water spreads out across the ground, extinguishing unprotected flames it comes in contact with, and then vanishes.

Godspeed (Recharge 6)
For 3 rounds the creature's speed doubles and his movement does not provoke opportunity attacks. All attack damage is increased by 2d4.

Charm (Recharge 5-6)
The creature targets one humanoid it can see within 30 ft. of it. If the target can see the creature, the target must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed by the creature. The charmed target regards the creature as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although the target isn't under the creature's control, it takes the creature's requests or actions in the most favorable way it can. Each time the creature or the creature's companions do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until the creature is destroyed, is on a different plane of existence than the target, or takes a bonus action to end the effect.

Gliding Stab (Recharge 5-6)
The creature glides up to 15 ft to make an attack. The glide itself does not provoke opportunity attacks but does require movement. The attack rolls a hit against any creature in the line of movement as well as any creature that would be hit by the extended spear. Melee Weapon Attack. +10 to hit, 10 ft reach. Hit: 15 (2d10 + 4) piercing damage, this attack is considered magical for the purposes of overcoming resistance. Hit creatures within the line are move to within 5 ft. of the creature's final location.

Jousting Swing (Recharge 5-6)
The creature charges up to 30 ft. and makes an upwards attack. The target and any creature in the path must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a fail, creatures in the path take 12 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage and be knocked 5 ft. to the side. Melee Weapon Attack. +10 to hit, 5 ft reach. one target. Hit: 21 (4d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage and, if the target failed their saving throw they are knocked 30 ft. into the air, potentially causing falling damage.

Frozen Exhale (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales a blast of freezing wind in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that failed the save has their movement speed reduced by 10 ft. for their next turn.

Big Bang Impact (Recharge 6)
The creature rears back and powers up. Until the start of its next turn, its AC is reduced by 4, attacks against it have advantage, physical damage it takes is reduced by 6, and it has advantage on saving throws that would result in it being stunned, paralyzed, or incapacitated. On its following turn, the creature punches the ground, creating a crater with a 20 ft. radius. The crater is considered difficult terrain and requires an Athletics/Acrobatics check of DC 15 to climb out of. A creature directly impacted by the attack takes 46 (8d8 + 10) bludgeoning damage. Any creature within the radius of the crater on impact must make a DC 14 Strength Saving Throw or take 21 (3d10 + 5) force damage and is hurled 20 ft. away. On a successul save, they take half damage and are pushed half the distance.

Chilling Gaze (Recharge 5-6)
The creature targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the creature, the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw against this magic or take 14 (4d6) cold damage and then be paralyzed for 1 minute, unless it is immune to cold damage. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If the target's saving throw is successful, or if the effect ends on it, the target is immune to this creature's gaze for 1 hour.

Sandslash (Recharge 5-6)
As an action, the creature conjures a vortex of sand that surrounds it. All creatures within 10 feet of the creature take 17 (5d6) slashing damage, or half damage with a successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw.

Frightful Presence (Recharge 5-6)
Each enemy of the creature's choice that is within 90 feet of the creature and aware of it must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If an enemy's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the enemy is immune to the creature's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours.

Whirlwind (Recharge 5-6)
Each enemy within 5 ft. of the creature's space must make a DC 13 Strength saving throw. On a failure, a target takes 11 (2d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage and is flung up 20 feet away from the creature in a random direction and knocked prone. If a thrown target strikes an object, such as a wall or floor, the target takes 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it was thrown. If the target is thrown at another creature, that creature must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take the same damage and be knocked prone. If the saving throw is successful, the target takes half the bludgeoning damage and isn't flung away or knocked prone.

Dust Devil (Recharge 5-6)
A 5-foot-radius, 30-foot-tall cylinder of sand magically forms on a point the creature can see within 120 feet of it. The dust devil lasts as long as the creature maintains concentration (as if a spell). Any creature that enters the dust devil must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be restrained by it; any number of creatures may be restrained this way. At the start of a restrained creature's turn, it takes 5 (2d4) slashing damage plus 5 (2d4) necrotic damage. The creature can move the dust devil up to 60 feet as an action; restrained creatures move with it. The dust devil ends if the creature loses sight of it. A creature can use its action to free a creature restrained by the dust devil, including itself, by making a DC 14 Strength check. If the check succeeds, it moves to the nearest space outside the dust devil.

Lightning's Kiss (Recharge 5-6)
One target within 50 feet must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. It takes 21 (6d6) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If a lightning storm is occuring, the save is made with disadvantage.

Cloud of Needles (Recharge 5-6)
The creature fires a cloud of sharp needles at all creatures within 30 feet of it. Each creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Reality Bomb (Recharge 5-6)
The creature can summon forth a tiny rune of law and throw it as a weapon. Any creature within 30 feet of the square where the reality bomb lands takes 21 (6d6) force damage and is stunned until the start of the creature's next turn. A target that makes a successful DC 16 Dexterity saving throw takes half damage and isn't stunned.

Charged Melody (Recharge 5-6)
The creature sings a beautiful melody. Each creature within 30 feet of it that can hear the melody must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or take 7 (2d6) lightning damage the next time it moves.

Cone of Negation (Recharge 5-6)
The creature can project a cone of null energy. Targets inside the 30 foot cone take 18 (4d8) force damage and suffer the effect of a dispel magic spell. A successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw reduces the damage to half and negates the dispel magic effect on that target.

Ember Wreath (Recharge 6)
As a bonus action, the creature wreathes its body in searing blue and white embers. The embers last for 1 minute or until the creature uses its breath weapon. An enemy that enters or starts its turn in a space within 10 feet of the creature must make a DC 23 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If an enemy fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it suffers one level of exhaustion as the water is sapped from its body by the unrelenting heat.

Call the Dead (Recharge 4-6)
The creature animates one humanoid corpse within 60 feet. This works like the animate dead spell, except it only creates zombies. The creature can control up to twenty zombies at one time.

Eldritch Singularity (Recharge 5-6)
The creature opens a momentary rupture in the eldritch source that fuels its words of power. This rupture appears at a spot designated by the creature within 100 feet. Any enemy within 60 feet of the spot must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the enemy takes 28 (8d6) force damage, falls prone, and is pulled 1d6 x 10 feet toward the eldritch singularity, taking an additional 3 (1d6) bludgeoning damage per 10 feet they were dragged. If the saving throw succeeds, the target takes half as much force damage and isn't knocked prone or pulled. The spot where the rupture occurs becomes the center of a 60-foot-radius antimagic field until the end of the creature's next turn. The creature's spells are not affected by this antimagic field.

Fallen Glory (Recharge 5-6)
All enemies within 50 feet of the creature and in its line of sight take 19 (3d12) radiant damage and are knocked prone, or take half damage and aren't knocked prone with a successful DC 15 Strength saving throw.

Ethereal Lure (Recharge 4-6)
The creature selects a spot within 20 feet of itself; that spot glows with a faint, blue light until the start of the worm's next turn. All other enemies that can see the light at the start of their turn must make a successful DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the start of their next turn. An enemy charmed this way must Dash toward the light by the most direct route, automatically fails saving throws against being grappled, and treats the creature as invisible.

Acid Spray (Recharge 5-6)
The creature spits acid in a line that is 30 ft. long and 5 ft. wide. Each enemy in that line must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Fiery Sands (Recharge 5-6)
Sand whips violently around the creature. Each enemy within 10 feet of the creature must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) slashing damage and 10 (3d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Ash Storm (Recharge 5-6)
The creature furiously beats its wings, throwing clinging ash into a 30-foot cone. Each enemy in the area must make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a enemy takes 28 (8d6) necrotic damage and is blinded until the end of its next turn. On a success, a enemy takes half the damage and isn’t blinded.

Scream (Recharge 5-6)
The creature shrieks thunderously in a 30-foot cone. Each enemy in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, an enemy takes 27 (6d8) thunder damage and is deafened for 1 hour. On a success, an enemy takes half as much damage and isn’t deafened.

Acid Wave (Recharge 5-6)
The creature rises up and crashes down, releasing a 20-foot radius wave of acidic ooze. Each enemy in the area must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, an enemy takes 67 (15d8) acid damage and is knocked prone. On a success, an enemy takes half the damage and isn't knocked prone.

Consult the Psyche (1/Day)
Each enemy within 60 feet who can see the creature must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn. Each enemy of the creature's choice within 60 feet that speaks a language must succeed on a DC 20 Charisma saving throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn as the creature telepathically utters a short expression that is particularly meaningful to that enemy.

Animate Bones (Recharge 5-6)
The creature creates a skeleton out of a pile of bones or a the corpse of a Large or smaller creature within 10 feet of it. The skeleton is under the control of the creature, obeying the creature’s mental commands, and uses the statistics of a CR 1 or lower skeleton of your choice. The creature can control up to three skeletons at one time. If the creature creates a skeleton while it already has three under its control, the oldest skeleton crumbles to dust.

Temporal Strike (recharge 5-6)
Channel your weapon as a bonus action. This lasts for 3 rounds. When the creature strikes a target with a melee attack, in addition to taking normal damage, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or instantly age 3d6 years. A creature that ages this way has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws based on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution until the aging is reversed. A creature that ages beyond its lifespan dies immediately. The aging reverses automatically after 24 hours, or it can be reversed magically by greater restoration or comparable magic. A creature that succeeds on the save is immune to the temporal strike effect for 24 hours.

Blood Bray (Recharge 6)
The creature unleashes an otherworldly braying that causes the internal organs of nearby enemies to twist and rupture. Each enemy within 20 feet of the creature that can hear it must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the enemy takes 36 (8d8) necrotic damage and is stunned until the end of its next turn as it doubles over in agony. On a success, the enemy takes half the damage and isn’t stunned. The bray doesn’t affect creatures without internal organs, such as constructs, elementals, and oozes.

Leadership (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest)
For 1 minute, the creature can utter a special command or warning whenever an ally that it can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll or a saving throw. The ally can add a d4 to its roll provided it can hear and understand the bandit lord. An ally can benefit from only one Leadership die at a time. This effect ends if the creature is incapacitated.

Crier’s Lament (1/Day)
The creature unleashes a devastating peal of anguish and rage in a 30-foot cone. Each enemy in the area must make a DC 16 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, an enemy drops to 0 hp. On a success, an enemy takes 21 (6d6) psychic damage and is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened enemy can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Steal Joy (Recharge 5-6)
Each enemy of the creature’s choice that is within 20 feet of the creature and aware of it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or its Charisma score is reduced by 1d4. An enemy that has its Charisma reduced to 0 ends its life at the earliest opportunity. Otherwise, the Charisma reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest.

Blood Magic (Recharge 5-6)
The creature causes 10-foot-high blood spikes to burst from the ground within 15 feet of it. Each enemy in the area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 26 (4d12) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Sonic Blast (Recharge 5-6)
The creature can emit a howling thunderclap that deafens and damages those nearby. Enemies within 15 feet who fail a DC 17 Constitution saving throw take 36 (8d8) thunder damage and are permanently deafened. Those succeeding on the saving throw take half damage and are not deafened. The deafness can be cured with lesser restoration.

Mock (Recharge 5-6)
The creature mocks the futile efforts of up to three enemies it can see within 30 feet of it that aren’t undead or constructs. Each target must make a DC 12 Charisma saving throw, taking 5 (2d4) psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature that fails this has disadvantage on their next saving throw.

Call Potion (Recharge 5-6)
The creature releases a hungry screech, magically reaching out to nearby potions. All potions within 10 feet of the creature magically move toward the creature by rolling out of backpacks, hopping off of belts, unburying themselves, etc. A creature wearing or carrying a potion must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or its potion moves to within 5 feet of the creature. The target must make a separate saving throw for each potion it is attempting to keep in its possession.

Light Beam (Recharge 5-6)
The creature shoots a 30-foot-long, 5-foot-wide line of scintillating light from the garnet on its forehead. Each enemy in that line must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Quake (Recharge 5-6)
The creature slams its fists into the ground, shaking the terrain within 60 feet of it. Each enemy standing on the ground in that area must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the enemy takes 45 (10d8) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, the enemy takes half the damage and isn’t knocked prone.


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

ELEMENT Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales ELE in a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that line must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 24 (5d8) ELE damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
	(Fire, Cold, Lightning, Acid, Necrotic, Radiant, Force, Thunder)

Poison Breath (Recharge 5–6)
The creature exhales poisonous gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 15 (4d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the creature can’t regain hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t poisoned.

Breath of Undeath (Recharge 5–6)
The creature exhales poisonous gas in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 15 (4d6) poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the creature can’t regain hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t poisoned. A humanoid reduced to 0 hit points by this damage dies and rises at the start of the creature’s next turn as a zombie. The zombie acts immediately after the creature in the initiative count and is permanently under its command, following its verbal orders.

Sleep Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales sleep gas in a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or fall unconscious for 10 minutes. This effect ends for a creature if the creature takes damage or someone uses an action to wake it.

Repulsion Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales repulsion energy in a (30-foot CONE or 60 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is pushed 60 feet away from the creature.

Slowing Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales gas in a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature can't use reactions, its speed is halved, and it can't make more than one attack on its turn. In addition, the creature can use either an action or a bonus action on its turn, but not both. These effects last for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a successful save.

Weakening Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales gas in a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or have disadvantage on Strength-based attack rolls, Strength checks, and Strength saving throws for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Flaring Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature emits a flash of dazzling light from its maw in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be blinded. Undead within the area of effect must also make a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or be turned for 1 minute. Undead of CR 2 or lower who fail the saving throw are instantly destroyed.

Metallic Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature can spit a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide) of metallic shards. Targets in its path take 14 (4d6) magical slashing damage and lose another 4 hit points from bleeding at the start of their turns for 6 rounds; slashing and bleed damage are halved by a successful DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. Only magical healing stops the bleeding before 6 rounds. The shards dissolve into wisps of smoke 1 round after the breath weapon's use.

Black Ice Spray (Recharge 5-6)
The creature sprays slivers of ice in a line (30-foot CONE or 60 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). All creatures in the line take 26 (4d12) necrotic damage and are blinded; a successful DC 15 Constitution saving throw prevents the blindness. A blinded creature repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the effect on itself with a successful save.

Tidal Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales a crushing wave of frigid seawater in a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the target takes 17 (3d10) bludgeoning damage and 11 (2d10) cold damage, and is pushed 30 feet away from the creature and knocked prone. On a successful save the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed or knocked prone.

Paralyzing Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales paralyzing gas in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns or each time it takes damage, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Gravitic Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales a 60-foot cube of powerful localized gravity, originating from the creature. Falling damage in the area increases to 1d10 per 10 feet fallen. When a creature starts its turn within the area or enters it for the first time in a turn, including when the creature creates the field, must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure the creature is restrained. On a success the creature's speed is halved as long as it remains in the field. A restrained creature repeats the saving throw at the end of its turn. The field persists until the creature's breath recharges, and it can't use gravitic breath twice consecutively.

Stellar Flare Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales star fire in a (60-foot CONE or 120 ft. LINE that is 5 feet wide). Each creature in that area must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (3d8) fire damage and 14 (3d8) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Ash Breath (recharge 5-6)
The creature spews a 20-foot cone of blistering hot, choking ash. Any targets in the path of this spray takes 14 (4d6) fire damage and become poisoned for one minute; a successful DC 13 Dexterity saving throw reduces damage by half and negates the poisoning. A poisoned enemy repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with a successful save.

Breath of Gales (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales a blast of wind in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that cone takes 22 (4d10) bludgeoning damage and is pushed 25 feet away from the creature and knocked prone; a successful DC 14 Strength saving throw halves the damage and prevents being pushed (but not being knocked prone). All flames in the cone are extinguished.

Cerebral Breath (Recharge 5-6)
The creature exhales psionic waves in a cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d8 psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. On a failed save, the creature has disadvantage on their next d20 roll.
